The Parable of the Sower

Elder Dallin H. Oaks

Distribute hand-out/pens.  As we go along, try to fill out the sheet.  Don't just use general terms.  Try to think about how this parable specifically applies to your own life.

Interestingly, the parable of the sower is one of the few parables, not only given by Jesus, but also explained by Him.  The parable itself is short, while its explanation much longer; so I thought we would begin by reading the parable itself.  Read Matthew 13:3-9.  As you can see, all the elements in the parable are in the hand-out.  In verses 10 through 23, Jesus goes on to explain the parable, but now we're going to turn to Elder Oak's talk which references those versus.

Read paragraph 2.  So just to reiterate, what does the seed represent in the parable?  Where do we get this seed today?

Read paragraph 3.  What does the soil represent?  I believe it represents our hearts.

Before we can move on, we should ask ourselves, are we really commited to being followers of Jesus Christ?  If there is anything in our lives that we need to repent of before we can take the Sacrament again, then we need to go get that taken care of, even if it means talking with the bishop.

Read paragraph 4.  So recieving the gospel message is just the first step.  Now we need to concern ourselves with what we do with that message.

Read paragraphs 5-7.  So what do the roots represent in the parable?  I believe the roots represent our testimony and level of conversion.  This is one of the things that I think makes this a great parable.  Have you ever had to go dig up a plant that was well-rooted?  With some plants, it doesn't matter how many times you pull it out of the ground, if you leave the root system, the whole thing will grow back.

Read paragraph 8.  What are the different sources of spiritual food available to us?  I believe this is any activity that invites the Spirit into our lives, whether it's going to the temple, holding FHE, praying as a family, reading the scriptures, attending our church meetings, reading the ensign, fulfilling our callings, etc.

Read paragraphs 9-10.  Any thoughts about this before we move on?

Read paragraph 11.  So now what do the thorns represent in the parable?  I believe these are competing priorties in our lives.  These could even be things that of themselves aren't bad, but because they're not moderated, and because they begin to take precedence over more important, spiritual things, they become a bad thing.  For example, I really like trail jogging, but if I do too much of it, it takes me away from my family, and time I should be spending with them.

Read paragraphs 12-13.  
